### Router
*Routes traffic between IP subnets*

Routers are OSI Layer 3 (Network Layer) devices. They connect many different network types (LAN, WAN, copper, fiber).

### Switch

Switches are OSI Layer 2 (Data Link Layer) devices. They forward traffic based on data link addresses.

### Firewall

**Traditional**: Filter traffic based on TCP or UDP port numbers.

**NGFW**: Identify applications traversing a network and manage if they may be allowed on the network.

They can encrypt traffic and have routing functionality.

### IDS and IPS
*Intrusion Detection/Prevention System*

Monitor network traffic for exploits and detects or blocks them.

### Load Balancers

Distribute the load between multiple servers, invisible to end users. Provide fault tolerance and redundancy.

### Proxies

Sits between the user and the internet and performs communication on the user's behalf. Does caching, access control, URL filtering, and content scanning.

### NAS and SAN

**Network Attached Storage (NAS)**
A storage device shared across a network. Provides file-level access (need to read and write entire files).

**Storage Area Network (SAN)**
Operates like a local storage device. More efficient because it provides block-level access to files, so that only certain blocks of files need to be updated

### Access Points

OSI Layer 2 device that acts as a bridge, extending a wired network onto a wireless network .

Performs translation between an 802.11 wireless network and an 802.3 ethernet network.

### Wireless LAN Controllers

Provides centralized management of access points. Facilitates simple deployment of new access points and performance and security monitoring.